The court system of England and Wales consists of a hierarchy of courts, which can be broadly divided into two categories: criminal courts and civil courts. The criminal courts deal with criminal offences, while the civil courts handle disputes between individuals or organisations. Here is a brief overview of the structure of the courts in England and Wales:Magistrates' Courts: These are the lowest level of criminal courts and deal with minor criminal offences, such as traffic offences and minor assaults.Crown Court: This court deals with serious criminal offences such as murder, rape, and serious fraud. It also hears appeals from the Magistrates' Courts.County Courts: These courts deal with civil matters such as small claims, debt recovery, and landlord-tenant disputes.High Court: This court deals with more complex civil matters such as contract disputes, personal injury claims, and disputes over property. It also has a division that handles cases related to family law and probate.Court of Appeal: This court hears appeals from the High Court and the Crown Court. It has two divisions: the Civil Division and the Criminal Division.Supreme Court: This is the highest court in the UK and is the final court of appeal in all civil and criminal cases. It also deals with devolution matters and human rights cases.It is worth noting that there are also specialised courts such as the Employment Tribunal, the Immigration and Asylum Tribunal, and the Family Court. Additionally, some cases may start in one court and be transferred to another if they exceed the jurisdiction of the initial court.Get a head start on your legal education with our First Year LLB Study Guide."I am impressed by how the notes are structured to facilitate effective learning.""UOLLB will show you how to study law correctly and quickly.""Studying with UOLLB makes my life as a law student so much easier.""UOLLB professors are true legal educators who teach from students' perspectives.""I never thought that studying law could be that effortless until I started studying with UOLLB.""UOLLB notes are very important law exam guides for open or closed book exams."Get notified of the latest legal updates and job market directly to your inbox.By using this website, you agree to our use of cookies. We use cookies to provide necessary site functionality and provide you with a great experience.Are you sure you'd like to flag this comment as inappropriate?Your comment is awaiting moderation, and will be published as soon as it has been approvedYou're logged in as the blog owner. Would you like to delete this comment?Your message has been successfully sentYour form has been submitted. Please check your email for a copy of your responses. If you're accepted, you'll receive an email with a link to checkout.