In England and Wales, there are a number of different tribunals which deal with specific areas of law. Tribunals are specialised bodies that are designed to provide a less formal and less expensive way of resolving disputes than traditional courts.Tribunals in England and Wales are overseen by the Tribunal Procedure Committee, which is responsible for setting the rules and procedures that they must follow. Some of the most important tribunals in England and Wales include:Employment Tribunal: deals with employment disputes, including unfair dismissal, discrimination, and breach of contract.First-tier Tribunal and Upper Tribunal: these are two separate tribunals, but they both deal with appeals against decisions made by government agencies and other public bodies. The First-tier Tribunal hears initial appeals, while the Upper Tribunal hears appeals against decisions made by the First-tier Tribunal.Immigration and Asylum Tribunal: deals with appeals against decisions made by the Home Office on immigration and asylum cases.Tax Tribunal: deals with appeals against decisions made by HM Revenue and Customs on tax matters.Mental Health Tribunal: deals with applications made under the Mental Health Act 1983, including decisions on detention and treatment of people with mental health conditions.Tribunals are intended to provide a simpler, quicker and cheaper way of resolving disputes than traditional courts. They often involve less formal procedures and rules of evidence, and parties may not need to have legal representation. Tribunal decisions are usually made by a panel of experts in the relevant area of law, and they are legally binding.Get a head start on your legal education with our First Year LLB Study Guide."I am impressed by how the notes are structured to facilitate effective learning.""UOLLB will show you how to study law correctly and quickly.""Studying with UOLLB makes my life as a law student so much easier.""UOLLB professors are true legal educators who teach from students' perspectives.""I never thought that studying law could be that effortless until I started studying with UOLLB.""UOLLB notes are very important law exam guides for open or closed book exams."Get notified of the latest legal updates and job market directly to your inbox.By using this website, you agree to our use of cookies. We use cookies to provide necessary site functionality and provide you with a great experience.Are you sure you'd like to flag this comment as inappropriate?Your comment is awaiting moderation, and will be published as soon as it has been approvedYou're logged in as the blog owner. Would you like to delete this comment?Your message has been successfully sentYour form has been submitted. Please check your email for a copy of your responses. If you're accepted, you'll receive an email with a link to checkout.