The civil courts of England and Wales handle disputes between individuals, organisations, and government bodies. Here's an overview of the main civil courts in England and Wales:County Court: This court deals with lower-value civil claims such as breach of contract, debt recovery, and housing disputes. It also has a small claims track for claims of up to £10,000, fast track for claims with a value of between £10,000 and £25,000, and multi-track for very complicated claims with a value of £25,000 or more.High Court: This court handles more complex and higher-value claims such as personal injury, contract disputes, and property disputes. It has three divisions: the Queen's Bench Division, the Chancery Division, and the Family Division.King's Bench Division: This division of the High Court deals with contract disputes, personal injury claims, defamation cases, and judicial reviews.Chancery Division: This division of the High Court deals with disputes relating to business, property, wills, and trusts.Family Division: This division of the High Court deals with family law matters such as divorce, child custody, and adoption.Court of Appeal: This court hears appeals from the High Court and the County Court. It has two divisions: the Civil Division and the Criminal Division.Supreme Court: This is the final court of appeal in all civil and criminal cases in the UK. It also handles cases relating to devolution and human rights.In addition to these main civil courts, there are also specialised tribunals that deal with specific areas of law, such as employment law, immigration law, and social security law. These include the Employment Tribunal, the First-tier Tribunal, and the Upper Tribunal.Get a head start on your legal education with our First Year LLB Study Guide."I am impressed by how the notes are structured to facilitate effective learning.""UOLLB will show you how to study law correctly and quickly.""Studying with UOLLB makes my life as a law student so much easier.""UOLLB professors are true legal educators who teach from students' perspectives.""I never thought that studying law could be that effortless until I started studying with UOLLB.""UOLLB notes are very important law exam guides for open or closed book exams."Get notified of the latest legal updates and job market directly to your inbox.By using this website, you agree to our use of cookies. We use cookies to provide necessary site functionality and provide you with a great experience.Are you sure you'd like to flag this comment as inappropriate?Your comment is awaiting moderation, and will be published as soon as it has been approvedYou're logged in as the blog owner. Would you like to delete this comment?Your message has been successfully sentYour form has been submitted. Please check your email for a copy of your responses. If you're accepted, you'll receive an email with a link to checkout.