The history of the European Union (EU) dates back to the aftermath of World War II, when European leaders sought to prevent future wars and promote economic recovery and integration. Here are some key milestones in the history of the EU:1951: The European Coal and Steel Community was created by the Treaty of Paris. This agreement established a common market for coal and steel, which were essential resources for rebuilding Europe after the war.1957: The Treaty of Rome created the European Economic Community (EEC), which aims to establish a customs union and common market among its member states. The EEC's six founding members were Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands.1973: Denmark, Ireland, and the United Kingdom joined the EEC.1986: The Single European Act was signed, which establishes the European Union and aims to create a single market for goods, services, capital, and people.1992: The Maastricht Treaty was signed, which creates the European Union as a political and economic union. It also establishes the euro as a common currency and introduces policies in areas such as foreign policy, justice, and home affairs.2004: The EU expanded to 25 members with the addition of 10 new countries from central and eastern Europe.2007: The Treaty of Lisbon was signed, which aims to reform the EU's institutions and decision-making processes. It also strengthens the EU's role in areas such as climate change and energy policy.2012: The European Stability Mechanism is established to provide financial assistance to eurozone countries in financial crisis.2016: The United Kingdom voted to leave the EU in a referendum known as Brexit.2020: At 11pm on 31 January 2020, the United Kingdom left the EU and entered a transition period. At 11pm on 31 December 2020, the transition period ended and the United Kingdom officially left the EU single market and customs union.As of April 2023, the EU is composed of 27 member states and has become a unique supranational organization with its own institutions and policies. It remains committed to promoting peace, stability, and prosperity in Europe and around the world.You can learn more about this topic and relevant case law with our Public Law, EU Law, and Constitutional Law notes."I am impressed by how the notes are structured to facilitate effective learning.""UOLLB will show you how to study law correctly and quickly.""Studying with UOLLB makes my life as a law student so much easier.""UOLLB professors are true legal educators who teach from students' perspectives.""I never thought that studying law could be that effortless until I started studying with UOLLB.""UOLLB notes are very important law exam guides for open or closed book exams."Get notified of the latest legal updates and job market directly to your inbox.By using this website, you agree to our use of cookies. We use cookies to provide necessary site functionality and provide you with a great experience.Are you sure you'd like to flag this comment as inappropriate?Your comment is awaiting moderation, and will be published as soon as it has been approvedYou're logged in as the blog owner. Would you like to delete this comment?Your message has been successfully sentYour form has been submitted. Please check your email for a copy of your responses. If you're accepted, you'll receive an email with a link to checkout.