Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) refers to methods of resolving disputes outside of formal court proceedings. It typically involves the use of a neutral third party to facilitate the resolution of a dispute between two or more parties.ADR includes a range of methods, such as negotiation, mediation, conciliation, and arbitration. In negotiation, the parties attempt to reach an agreement on their own. Mediation and conciliation involve the use of a neutral third party to help the parties reach an agreement. In arbitration, the parties submit their dispute to a neutral third party who makes a binding decision.ADR is often seen as a quicker, more cost-effective and less confrontational way of resolving disputes than going to court. It can be particularly useful for disputes that involve ongoing relationships between the parties, such as disputes between businesses or disputes between landlords and tenants.Many jurisdictions have implemented legislation and regulations that encourage or require parties to consider using ADR before resorting to litigation. In some cases, courts may even require parties to attempt ADR before the case can proceed to trial.Get a head start on your legal education with our First Year LLB Study Guide."I am impressed by how the notes are structured to facilitate effective learning.""UOLLB will show you how to study law correctly and quickly.""Studying with UOLLB makes my life as a law student so much easier.""UOLLB professors are true legal educators who teach from students' perspectives.""I never thought that studying law could be that effortless until I started studying with UOLLB.""UOLLB notes are very important law exam guides for open or closed book exams."Get notified of the latest legal updates and job market directly to your inbox.By using this website, you agree to our use of cookies. We use cookies to provide necessary site functionality and provide you with a great experience.Are you sure you'd like to flag this comment as inappropriate?Your comment is awaiting moderation, and will be published as soon as it has been approvedYou're logged in as the blog owner. Would you like to delete this comment?Your message has been successfully sentYour form has been submitted. Please check your email for a copy of your responses. If you're accepted, you'll receive an email with a link to checkout.