Common law and civil law are two major legal systems used in the world. Common law is a legal system that originated in England and is based on both legal precedents and codified laws, whereas civil law is a legal system that is based on codified laws rather than judicial decisions.In a common law system, judges interpret the law and make decisions based on legal precedents established in previous cases. These decisions are binding on lower courts and become part of the body of law known as case law or judge-made law. Common law systems are used in countries such as the United Kingdom, the United States, and Australia.In a civil law system, laws are codified and arranged into a comprehensive system. Judges are responsible for interpreting and applying the law, but they are not bound by legal precedents in the same way that judges in a common law system are. Civil law systems are used in countries such as France, Germany, and Japan.There are also hybrid legal systems that combine elements of both common law and civil law. These systems are used in jurisdictions such as Scotland and South Africa.Each system has its own advantages and disadvantages. Common law systems are often more flexible and adaptable, while civil law systems are typically more predictable and consistent. Ultimately, the choice of legal system depends on the cultural, historical, and political context of the country in question.Get a head start on your legal education with our First Year LLB Study Guide."I am impressed by how the notes are structured to facilitate effective learning.""UOLLB will show you how to study law correctly and quickly.""Studying with UOLLB makes my life as a law student so much easier.""UOLLB professors are true legal educators who teach from students' perspectives.""I never thought that studying law could be that effortless until I started studying with UOLLB.""UOLLB notes are very important law exam guides for open or closed book exams."Get notified of the latest legal updates and job market directly to your inbox.By using this website, you agree to our use of cookies. We use cookies to provide necessary site functionality and provide you with a great experience.Are you sure you'd like to flag this comment as inappropriate?Your comment is awaiting moderation, and will be published as soon as it has been approvedYou're logged in as the blog owner. Would you like to delete this comment?Your message has been successfully sentYour form has been submitted. Please check your email for a copy of your responses. If you're accepted, you'll receive an email with a link to checkout.