The Court of Appeal of England and Wales is the second-highest court in the legal system of England and Wales, sitting above the High Court and below the Supreme Court. It is divided into two divisions: the Civil Division and the Criminal Division.The Civil Division hears appeals from lower courts in civil cases, including those related to contract disputes, property law, and personal injury claims. The Criminal Division hears appeals from lower courts in criminal cases, including those related to serious crimes such as murder, rape, and fraud.The Court of Appeal has the power to hear appeals against decisions made by judges sitting in the High Court, as well as certain types of tribunals. It can make several types of decisions, including upholding the original decision, reversing it, or ordering a retrial. Its decisions are binding on the lower courts, and it has the power to set legal precedents that lower courts must follow.The Court of Appeal consists of experienced judges, including both High Court judges and specialist Court of Appeal judges, who are appointed by the King on the recommendation of an independent selection commission. They are typically distinguished lawyers or former judges who have demonstrated expertise in their respective fields.Overall, the Court of Appeal of England and Wales plays a critical role in the country's legal system, ensuring that justice is served and the rule of law is upheld. Its decisions have a significant impact on individuals and businesses, and it is widely regarded as one of the most important and prestigious courts in the world.Get a head start on your legal education with our First Year LLB Study Guide."I am impressed by how the notes are structured to facilitate effective learning.""UOLLB will show you how to study law correctly and quickly.""Studying with UOLLB makes my life as a law student so much easier.""UOLLB professors are true legal educators who teach from students' perspectives.""I never thought that studying law could be that effortless until I started studying with UOLLB.""UOLLB notes are very important law exam guides for open or closed book exams."Get notified of the latest legal updates and job market directly to your inbox.By using this website, you agree to our use of cookies. We use cookies to provide necessary site functionality and provide you with a great experience.Are you sure you'd like to flag this comment as inappropriate?Your comment is awaiting moderation, and will be published as soon as it has been approvedYou're logged in as the blog owner. Would you like to delete this comment?Your message has been successfully sentYour form has been submitted. Please check your email for a copy of your responses. If you're accepted, you'll receive an email with a link to checkout.